machinectl: add page (#10920)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/machinectl.md

# machinectl

> > Utility to manage Linux containers, particularly on systems that use the `systemd init` system.
> > It provides a powerful and convenient way to create, start, stop, and manage container instances, referred to as machines in `systemd` terminology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Control the systemd machine manager.
> Execute operations on virtual machines, containers and images.
```

> More information: <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/machinectl.html>.

> 
> - Create a container:
> 
> `sudo machinectl create {{container-name}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> `sudo machinectl create {{container-name}}`

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to work:
```
# machinectl create container_name
Unknown command verb create.
```

Reviewer 2: I too can confirm it doesn't work.

```zsh
➜  ~ machinectl create
Unknown command verb create.
➜  ~ sudo machinectl create test
Place your right index finger on the fingerprint reader
Unknown command verb create.
```

Version:

```zsh
➜  ~ machinectl --version
systemd 253 (253.10-1.fc38)
+PAM +AUDIT +SELINUX -APPARMOR +IMA +SMACK +SECCOMP -GCRYPT +GNUTLS +OPENSSL +ACL +BLKID +CURL +ELFUTILS +FIDO2 +IDN2 -IDN -IPTC +KMOD +LIBCRYPTSETUP +LIBFDISK +PCRE2 +PWQUALITY +P11KIT +QRENCODE +TPM2 +BZIP2 +LZ4 +XZ +ZLIB +ZSTD +BPF_FRAMEWORK +XKBCOMMON +UTMP +SYSVINIT default-hierarchy=unified
```

> - Start a container:
> 
> `sudo machinectl start {{container-name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Start a container as a service using `systemd-nspawn`:

`sudo machinectl start {{container_name}}`
```

> - Stop a running container:
> 
> `sudo machinectl stop {{container-name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stop a running machine:

`sudo machinectl stop {{machine_name}}`
```

> - Display a list of running containers:
> 
> `machinectl list`
> 
> - Interactively log into the container shell:
> 
> `sudo machinectl shell {{container-name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Display a list of running machines:

`machinectl list`

- Open an interactive shell inside the machine:

`sudo machinectl shell {{machine_name}}`
```

> # Machinectl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# machinectl
```

Note: We don't capitalize the words in page headings generally (as we keep it the same as case as the command)

> > Machinectl is a command-line utility for managing Linux containers, particularly on systems that use the systemd init system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Utility to manage Linux containers, particularly on systems that use the `systemd init` system.
```
Ref. https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#descriptions

> > It provides a powerful and convenient way to create, start, stop, and manage container instances, referred to as "machines" in systemd terminology.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> It provides a powerful and convenient way to create, start, stop, and manage container instances, referred to as machines in `systemd` terminology.
> More information: <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/machinectl.html>.
```
We can add a link to the man page here.

> - Create a Machine:
> 
> `sudo machinectl create my-container`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a container:

`sudo machinectl create {{container-name}}`
```

> - You can start a container with the following command:
> 
> `sudo machinectl start my-container`
> 
> - To stop a running container, use the following command:
> 
> `sudo machinectl stop my-container`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Start a container:

`sudo machinectl start {{container-name}}`

- Stop a running container:

`sudo machinectl stop {{container-name}}`
```

> - To see a list of running containers, execute:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Display a list of running containers:
```

`machinectl list`

> - To log into a container for interactive use, use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Interactively log into the container shell:
```

> - To log into a container for interactive use, use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Interactively log into the container shell:
```

> - To log into a container for interactive use, use:
> 
> `sudo machinectl shell my-container`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Interactively log into the container shell:

`sudo machinectl shell {{container-name}}`
```

> 
> - Machinectl is typically available on systems that support systemd. If not installed, you can usually obtain it via your distribution's package manager. For example, on Debian/Ubuntu:
> 
> `sudo apt-get install systemd-container`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

We don't support having installation commands for any distribution specific packages in tldr.
